qatar's foreign Ministry announced
Israel and the Palestinian islamist
group have agreed to deliver medicines
hostages held by Hamas in Gaza in
exchange for supplying Aid to civilians
following French and Qatari mediation
the United Nation says the war has
displaced roughly 85% of gaza's 2.4
million people many of whom have been
forced to crowd into shelters and
struggle to get food water fuel and
Medical Care under the deal the
humanitarian Supply will leave the
Qatari Capital Doha for Egypt later
today the aid will then be taken to Gaza
to be delivered to civilians while
medicin are to reach Israeli captives
more than 132 hostages are thought to be
still held in Gaza live now to our
Middle East correspondent yoland Nell
yoland what more can you tell us about
this deal and how difficult it was to
come to an
agreement yes so this is a deal we first
heard about a few days ago and then it
seems to have hit some logistical
problems now those have been resolved we
understand um Qatar has been the
important party here assisted by the
French the French saying that something
like 45 of the remaining hostages are
suffering from chronic diseases or need
life saving medicines of other kinds uh
so now those medicines have been
acquired and we understand that they
will be flown uh from Doha today um on
Air Force jets uh taken into Egypt and
then will be transferred across to G in
exchange we understand Hamas has
accepted that there will be a big
increase in the number of medicines
allowed in for Palestinian civilians
suffering in Gaza right and what about
the broader Aid question in
Gaza I mean this is a big issue we've
had the world food program coming out uh
in recent days saying that people are at
risk of dying of starvation just miles
away from trucks full with food and
they're really asking the different un
Aid agencies for more entry points to be
opened up to go into Gaza an easing of
the very uh tight and they say laborious
um Security checks uh that need to be
carried out things made more streamlined
also making it easier for f humanitarian
workers to distribute the aid giving
them some guarantees of safety because
at the moment that is one of the major
problems even when Aid can be gotten
into Gaza you can't distribute it easily
around the Gaza Strip there's so much
ongoing fighting in the South there are
other issues like another
telecommunications blackout so it makes
it very hard to coordinate with teams on
the ground youand the fact that this
agreement was struck is it a sign that
there is hope for more diplomacy and
even a
ceasefire I mean what's interesting is
the fact that this uh deal was announced
and we just also had last night the wh
house saying that uh its Middle East
Envoy had just been in Kat and had taken
part in very very serious and intensive
discussions about the possibility of
another hostage release deal uh in
exchange of course that would be for uh
some kind of a ceasefire um so the White
House saying that it's hopeful although
indicating that there's still a long way
to go although the fact that the
agreement includes medicines to be
delivered to the Israeli hostages is an
implicit admission or admission perhaps
is the wrong word but it's implicit
indication that they're still alive and
can be
located
um that does appear to be a sort of
hopeful sign from this and it's really a
hopeful sign for the families of the
hostages some of them had actually gone
to Qatar to meet the prime minister in
recent days and and really press uh for
some kind of breakthrough starting off
uh with the medicine we know of course
that some of the hostages are older
people uh people who were taking daily
uh medicines for different health
conditions um and that also there were
others who were injured um and that has
also been a factor a lot of concern
about what's happened to them a bit of
information that has come from the
hostages who were released under that
deal um that saw about half of the total
of 240 hostages originally taken on the
7th of October uh by Hamas uh released
um and uh it's been something that we've
we've heard a lot about on the Israeli
side um this will bring some kind of a
relief for people but they desperately
want uh much more to be done Goan thank
you very much
indeed